
                              19 of 1244 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday
                                 Early Edition

Showdown in Denver;
An energized Romney takes fight to Obama on big government and pocketbook issues
as underdog Republican uses TV debate to spark flagging presidential campaign

BYLINE: KONRAD YAKABUSKI

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; U.S. POLITICS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1278 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A pugnacious Mitt Romney used one of his final chances to change the course of
the election campaign to challenge a tentative President Barack Obama on taxes,
health care and the role of government in their first televised debate.

Mr. Obama, appearing serious and at times hesitant, opened the debate Wednesday
night in Denver by accusing his rival of seeking to cut taxes by $5-trillion
(U.S.) over 10 years for the wealthy and to increase military spending by
$2-trillion, suggesting the plan would blow a hole in the budget.

"Are we going to double-down on the top-down policies that got us into this mess
or are we going to embrace a new economic patriotism that says America does best
when the middle class does best?" Mr. Obama said, highlighting his plan to
invest in education and training, and give favourable tax treatment to companies
that invest domestically.

Mr. Romney labelled Mr. Obama's approach "trickle-down government" and countered
that Mr. Romney would get the economy going by implementing pro-business
policies that favour domestic energy, free trade, skills development, a balanced
budget and small business.

"The President has a view very similar to the view he had when he ran four years
[ago], that a bigger government, spending more, taxing more, regulating more -
if you will, trickle-down government - would work," said Mr. Romney, who
appeared energetic and earnest despite a voice that grew hoarser as the debate
wore on. "That's not the right answer for America."

During the 90-minute debate on domestic issues, Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney also
sparred over education, Medicare, Social Security and health-care reform, with
the two policy wonks at moments getting deep into the weeds of the
technicalities of each program.

For Mr. Romney, the first of the three presidential debates marked one of his
last chances to make up the ground he has lost to Mr. Obama in recent weeks. The
Republican candidate headed into Wednesday's debate trailing Mr. Obama in most
of the swing states that will decide the election. A Wall Street Journal/NBC
News poll released just before the debate showed the President ahead by eight
percentage points among likely voters in Ohio. No Republican has won the White
House without taking Ohio.

Fending off charges that his policies would favour the rich, Mr. Romney stressed
several times in the debate that "there will be no tax cut that adds to the
deficit." Instead, he said high-income households would continue to face the
same tax burden they face now, while middle-income families would see tax
relief.

"Under the President's policies, middle-income Americans have been buried.
They're just being crushed. Middle-income Americans have seen their income come
down by $4,300," Mr. Romney added. "This is a tax in and of itself. I'll call it
the economy tax. It's been crushing."

Mr. Obama scoffed: "For 18 months, he's been running on his tax plan [to cut
taxes for the wealthy]. ... And now, five weeks before the election, he's saying
his big bold idea is 'Never mind.' "

The debate took also place against the backdrop of duelling videos circulating
on the Internet that cast each candidate in an unfavourable light. Mr. Romney,
still reeling from the emergence last month of his secretly taped remarks
slamming Mr. Obama's supporters as freeloaders, sought to reverse the damage of
those comments during the debate.

In the video of his remarks, surreptitiously taped at a fundraiser in May, Mr.
Romney suggests it is "not my job to worry" about the 47 per cent of Americans
who pay no income taxes because they will vote for Mr. Obama "no matter what."

Meanwhile, Mr. Obama's words also came back to haunt him as a conservative
website posted footage of his 2007 remarks to an audience of black pastors, in
which he used racially sensitive language and African-American colloquialisms.
Then an Illinois senator, Mr. Obama intimated that race was one reason for the
Bush administration's slow response in helping New Orleans after Hurricane
Katrina.

Parts of Mr. Obama's remarks were covered in the media at the time. But The
Daily Caller made a splash with the video on Tuesday, arguing that most of the
video's content was being revealed for the first time. The story was picked up
by Fox News and dominated the conservative media on Wednesday. The development
could mobilize the Republican base, whose enthusiasm has been waning, to turn
out to defeat the President.

Meanwhile, a NBC/Telemundo survey of Latinos released Wednesday showed Mr. Obama
with a gigantic 50 percentage point lead over Mr. Romney among likely Hispanic
voters. At a meagre 21 per cent, Mr. Romney is garnering 10 points less than the
31 per cent of the Hispanic vote John McCain captured in 2008 and less than half
of the 44 per cent George W. Bush won in 2004. Some pollsters contend that Mr.
Romney cannot win the White House with less than 40 per cent of the Latino vote.

As a result, Mr. Romney has moved to temper the hard line on illegal immigration
he took during the Republican primaries. He promised on Monday to respect the
Obama administration's move to grant work permits to illegal immigrants under 30
who meet certain criteria. But aides later clarified that, as president, Mr.
Romney would not issue any new work permits to that group but implement a
permanent solution to their situation.

*****

CHOICE WORDS

The presidential debate provided nugget after nugget of interest. Here are a
few:

Memorable body-language exchange between the two

candidates

Romney: "I don't have a tax cut."

Obama: [looks down, and smirks]

Obama: "We do best when the middle class does well."

Romney: [looks up, and smirks]

Romney: "Virtually everything he has just said about my tax cut is inaccurate."

Promises, promises

Romney: "Obamacare - I'd get rid of that. I like PBS. I like Big Bird. I like
you too, Jim [Jim Lehrer of PBS, the moderator] but I'm going to get rid of
that."

Best-prepared zinger

Obama: "When I came into office, we had ... two wars that were paid for by a
credit card."

Romney: "Try and get a mortgage these days!"

Of interest to Canada:

Romney: "I'll bring that pipeline in from Canada."

Failed attempt at likeability

Romney: [Recognizing that Wednesday was Mr. Obama's 20th wedding anniversary]
"I'm sure this is the most romantic place you could imagine, here with me."

First funny line

Obama: "Under Governor Romney's plan, Donald Trump is a small businessman. And I
know Donald Trump doesn't like to think of himself as a small anything."

Most invoked figure (or interest group)

"The middle class," "middle-class families," struggling women, small business
owners

Hardest sell

Romney: "I'm not in favour of a $5-billion tax cut. That's not my plan. ... My
plan is nothing that's been tried before."

Health-care zingers

Romney: "The cost of health care is just prohibitive [and] Obamacare ... is
adding to cost. ... It's expensive. ... It has killed jobs."

Obama: "[When I ran four years ago, I met families scared of going broke if they
got sick.] It doesn't say you can't have your own doctor. It does say [insurance
companies] can't jerk you around."

Romney: "The Republicans put a plan out ... and we have to have a president who
can reach across the aisle."

Obama: "Governor Romney wrote and said, 'what we did in Massachusetts can be a
model for the nation.' ... The fact of the matter is, we used the same
advisers."

Muscling aside the moderator

Obama: [As Mr. Lehrer attempts to cut him off] "I had five seconds before you
interrupted me."

Romney: [As Mr. Lehrer attempts to cut him off] "No, I have to respond to that."

Affan Chowdhry

Adam Radwanski

Doug Saunders

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
