
                              24 of 1244 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday

AMERICA'S FUTURE Great debater Mitt mauls O l  Insists tax cut won't add to
deficit l  Blames prez for weak economy l  Weak rival doesn't mention '47%'

BYLINE: Geoff Earle

SECTION: Sports Extra; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 929 words


DENVER - An invigorated Mitt Romney brought his A game to last night's
presidential debate, fiercely fighting back against President Obama's attacks on
Romney's "trickle down" tax plan and hitting Obama for the nation's economic
troubles.

For much of the debate, Obama, who is sitting on a lead in the polls, didn't
take the fight to Romney with his sharpest attacks - failing to raise Romney's
"47 percent" remarks or bring up Romney's time at Bain Capital.

Romney, whose advisers have been promising a turnaround for his campaign after
the debate, said that on taxes he would "take a different path - not the one
we've been on, not the one the president describes as a top-down, cut taxes for
the rich. That's not what I'm going to do."

Among the highlights of the at time s contentious debate:

n  Again and again, Obama slammed Romney's tax plan as a $5 trillion budget
buster.

n  But Romney countered, "I will not add to the deficit with my tax plan."

n  On Obama's energy plan, Romney took the president to task, insisting that he,
too, likes green energy - just not to the tune of $90 billion in subsidies that
the current adminstration has handed out.

n  Romney turned the tables on the president's attacks on his health plan by
insisting Obama would be cutting the heart out of Medicare to fund his
health-care intiative.

Obama attacked Romney's proposed tax cuts and boost in defense spending.

"And he is saying that he is going to pay for it by closing loopholes and
deductions. The problem is that he's been asked over a hundred times how you
would close those deductions and loopholes; he hasn't been able to identify
them."

But Romney shot back: "I don't have a $5 trillion tax cut. I don't have a tax
cut of the scale that you're talking about."

"If the tax plan he described were a tax plan I was asked to support, I'd say
absolutely not," Romney said. "What I've said is I won't put in place a tax cut
that adds to the deficit."

Obama said it was "not possible" to find enough deductions without either
raising the deficit or hitting the middle class. "It's math. It's arithmetic,"
Obama said.

"At some point, the American people have to ask themselves if the reason that
Governor Romney is keeping all these plans secret is because they're too good,"
the president quipped at one point.

Romney said he'd put all kinds of programs on the chopping block.

"ObamaCare is on my list. I apologize, Mr. President. I use that term with all
Â­respect."

"I like it," Obama responded.

"OK, good. So I'd get rid of that," said Romney.

Romney, who performed well in several Republican-primary debates but has been
criticized for being stiff on the campaign trail, even scored a point after
Obama congratulated his wife, Michelle, on their 20th wedding anniversary.

"Twenty years ago I became the luckiest man on earth because Michelle Obama
agreed to marry me," the president said at the top of the debate.

"Congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your anniversary," Romney said. "I'm
sure this was the most romantic place you could imagine here - here with me."

During the debate Romney seemed more energetic, turning more often to look
toward Obama. The president when he wasn't speaking often looked down toward the
podium or away from Romney.

At times Romney cut off moderator Jim Lehrer and talked over his time limit -
something Obama also did, getting chided at times by Lehrer.

After Obama described Romney's tax plan to keep in place Bush-era tax cuts as
"trickle down," Romney described them more as Robin Hood.

"We ought to provide tax relief to people in the middle class. But I'm not going
to reduce the share of taxes paid by high-income people. High-income people are
doing just fine in this economy. They'll do fine whether you're president or I
am," Romney explained.

"The people who are having the hard time right now are middle-income Americans.
Under the president's policies, middle-income Americans have been buried.
They're just being crushed," he added - quoting a line that Vice President Joe
Biden uttered Monday in a campaign-trail gaffe.

Romney described Obama's philosophy as "trickle-down government," and called the
sluggish economy an "economy tax" on the nation.

Twice Obama invoked Bill Clinton as a lifeline. "Bill Clinton tried the
[economic] approach that I'm talking about. We created 23 million new jobs. We
went from deficit to surplus," he said.

At one point Romney even mentioned how he may need "to get a new accountant" -
and Obama didn't interject anything about the 14 percent tax rate Romney made on
millions in income last year as the debate moved onto another section.

Obama grew more focused as the debate wore on.

After Romney said he'd replace ObamaCare, banking regulations and other
policies, Obama again hit him for hiding the ball.

"Governor Romney says 'We should replace [ObamaCare], I'm just going to repeal
it, but - but we can replace it with something,' " said Obama. "But the problem
is, he hasn't described what exactly we'd replace it with, other than saying
we're going to leave it to the states."

On Medicare, Obama repeatedly hit Romney for turning Medicare into a "voucher."

But Romney jumped on ObamaCare's more than $716 billion in Medicare cuts. Obama
countered that the cuts prolonged the life of the program.

"The president was either not prepared or meandered," said Romney senior adviser
Ron Kaufman afterward.

"He stuttered a whole bunch. It's almost like he didn't know where he wanted to
go."

geoff.earle@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
