
                              32 of 1244 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday

26

BYLINE: Carl Campanile

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 585 words


It was Mitt Romney's night.

Political analysts from four crucial battleground states said undecided and
skeptical voters may give Romney a second look after the Republican candidate
bested President Obama in the first presidential debate.

"President Obama left his A game at the White House tonight; Mitt Romney won the
debate, and it wasn't particularly close," said University of Virginia Professor
Larry Sabato.

"Romney was more forceful in his answers, and the president missed several
critical opportunities to counterattack. He didn't even mention Romney's '47
percent' line," Sabato said.

"This was Obama's worst debate performance ever. "

Sabato gave Romney an A grade and Obama a C-minus.

Romney also scored points in Florida.

"Romney did a better job. He helped himself. He brought himself up from all the
flak he's been taking. He appeared to be more caring than he's been depicted so
far," said University of Florida communications professor Jon Morris. "This
definitely could tighten the race."

Morris said Romney appeared more crisp and forceful with his answers.

"For whatever reason, Obama didn't take Romney on. It was a little too much of a
teacher approach by Obama rather than getting a point across. He gave too much
of a lecture," Morris said.

He did say Obama scored when he blasted Romney for a lack of specifics on tax
cuts and regulating Wall Street.

In New Hampshire, St. Anselm College poli-sci Professor Christopher Galdieri
also gave the nod to Romney.

Galdieri said Romney "started off the night very strongly," while Obama seemed
"very hesitant and tentative in many of his answers." He gave Romney a "high B"
and Obama a "low B-minus."

"[Obama] also seemed surprisingly reluctant to challenge directly many of
Romney's statements about issues like Medicare and health care, even though his
campaign has been criticizing Romney on these very points for months," the
Granite State analyst said.

Two experts in the swing state of Ohio gave a split verdict.

"I do believe Romney was the better prepared of the two," said Professor
Christopher Kelly of Ohio's Miami University.

"Romney came into the debate on the attack, and he sustained that attack
throughout the debate. He had a few talking points that he got across without
any response from Obama."

But University of Ohio poli-sci Professor Corrine McConnaughy gave Obama the
edge. "Romney failed to personalize and detail his plans. . . Obama stayed
cooler, calmer, more in charge," she said.

BATTLEGROUND USA

The race for the White House is focused on a dozen battleground states, where
the latest polls show President Obama holding leads across the board. Electoral
Votes

FlOrida 29

n Obama 47%

n Romney 46%

(NBC/WSJ 9/30-10/1)

OHiO 18

n Obama 51%

n Romney 43%

(NBC/WSJ 9/30-10/1)

Virginia 13

n Obama 48%

n Romney 46%

(NBC/WSJ 9/30-10/1)

nOrTH CarOlina 15

n Obama 49%

n Romney 47%

(Survey USA9/29-10/1)

COlOradO 9

n Obama 49%

n Romney 46%

(WeAsk America 9/25-9/27)

iOWa 6

n Obama 48%

n Romney 44%

(WeAsk America 9/25-9/27)

neVada 6

n Obama 53%

n Romney 42%

(WeAsk America 9/25-9/27)

neW HamPsHire 4

n Obama 52%

n Romney 37%

(WMUR 9/27-9/30)

WisCOnsin 10

n Obama 53%

n Romney 42%

(Marquette 9/27-9/30)

miCHigan 16

n Obama 52%

n Romney 40%

(WeAsk America 9/25-9/27)

PennsylVa nia 20

n Obama 49%

n Romney 42%

(Morning Call 9/22-9/26)

neW mexiCO 5

n Obama 51%

n Romney 40%

(Rasmussen 9/27)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
