
                              16 of 1098 DOCUMENTS


                                  Denver Post

                           October 18, 2012 Thursday
                              THU REGIONAL Edition

The Open Forum

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 3724 words


Romney vs. Obama: the second presidential debate

President Obama was the clear winner Tuesday night. He challenged Mitt Romney
and actually had him spitting and sputtering. We must remember the president's
challenger is a man who is used to being in charge, used to being catered to,
used to always having his way. I heard nothing from him in either debate that
assured me, the mother of two daughters and the grandmother of two
granddaughters, that he has any concern about their shot at the American dream.

Our president does care about the middle class, the working poor, the poor, the
sick and disabled. A great country requires its citizens to care about each
other, no matter their circumstance in life. I simply do not believe Mitt Romney
is capable of that.

Kathi Goff, Arvada

* * *

I was struck by how few questions at the debate were about the president's
record, thus requiring Mitt Romney to raise those questions himself. Either the
people in the audience didn't think it important, which is hard to believe, or
the moderator chose not to use them because she believed them not relevant or
worthy of discussion.

L.W. Hunley, Grand Junction

* * *

When debating the economy, Mitt Romney has a distinct advantage over President
Obama. The former governor is not limited by the realities of recovering from
the worst economic collapse since the Great Depression. When Romney suggests
today's unemployment rate should have been recovered in four years, he is
ignoring that it took 15 years to recover the 1929 pre-crash unemployment rate.
And he is overestimating his own capabilities if he thinks the well-worn
Republican solution of sprinkling tax relief on the "job creators" will cause
them to magically start hiring. No business hires due to a tax break. They hire
when there is an increased demand for their product. And all demand starts with
the buying power of the middle class. President Obama has the right idea. Help
the middle class and you strengthen the economy for all.

Doug Willey, Thornton

* * *

It was interesting to watch Mitt Romney get dissected by the truth during the
second debate. He talked about creating jobs here in the U.S., yet he has
invested in companies that are pioneers in outsourcing our jobs to China and
India. He stated the administration failed to mention it was a terrorist attack
in Benghazi during the Rose Garden speech, and the moderator had to point out
that Mr. Romney's statement was false. The truth seems to evade Mr. Romney more
often than not.

Keith Wallin, Westminster

* * *

What a disappointment. The second debate was nothing more than two hours of
political commercials. Each repeated the usual blah-blah of their commercials.
Yes, President Obama was more assertive; he had to be unless he slept through
the debate. I was also disappointed in the questions. How about, "Mr. President,
How big is too big for the federal government?" and, "Governor, how small is too
small for the federal government?" That is the crux of this election.

Dennis Stewart, Aurora

Jessica's disappearance brought community together

As a Westminster resident, I want to express my deep appreciation to the police
department and all the agencies involved in the search for Jessica Ridgeway.
While the outcome wasn't what we hoped for, the dedication shown by law
enforcement and 800 volunteers make me proud to call Westminster home.

This event has saddened and traumatized us. We lost an innocent little girl, and
a killer is somewhere among us. It has stunned a community, made us question our
surroundings and hug our loved ones a little tighter. Jessica, unknown to the
majority of us, brought neighbors and strangers together on a freezing Saturday
to help search for her. When civilian search volunteers were no longer needed,
they passed out flyers. Out of this tragedy, strangers became friends and a
community became closer, united in what began as a search and now centers on
finding her killer. Our hope has now changed to grief.

The family of little Jessica should take comfort in knowing that she lives in
all our hearts.

Sharon Powers, Westminster

Alice Nichol's ethics

Re: "Nichol won't face charges," Oct. 16 news story.

So, Adams County Commissioner Alice Nichol wasn't indicted for fraud; however,
what about her ethics? Aren't those in question big time? I for one am glad she
was not on the ballot again and I hope that everyone in Adams County remembers
her name in case she decides to run for public office again.

Alice Deanda, Thornton

Folska vs. Chowdhury in RTD's District E

Claudia Folska is the right choice for the RTD Board of Directors. Claudia does
not own or drive a car and relies on RTD for her transportation needs. As a
single mom, she uses RTD for commuting to work, shopping and to run errands.

Claudia has completed a dual Ph.D. with a transportation focus by commuting
daily to the University of Colorado in both Boulder and Denver. Through riding
RTD, Claudia Folska has identified several improvements that have been
implemented at RTD. Claudia has testified before the PUC to make safety
improvements at light rail street crossings. She also has helped improve ADA
compliance at RTD and has worked with staff to make RTD employment opportunities
accessible to people with disabilities.

Claudia Folska is a strong advocate for all RTD riders and for the people of
Colorado. As an RTD board member, Claudia will bring her vision, expertise and
passion for transit to this very important position.

Tom Tobiassen, AuroraThe writer is a member of the RTD Board of Directors.

* * *

This is the single most important time in Aurora's relationship with RTD. We
have never had much hope for buses to serve our suburb, but now we have light
rail building the spine of the city right along Interstate 225. It is vitally
important that the RTD board member representing Aurora be from Aurora and be
vitally familiar with Aurora. Vince Chowdhury is the effective choice for RTD
board. Vince has attended almost every one of my ward meetings to hear your
concerns and he works with me to get things done. He has earned my support for
election to the RTD board this November. I hope you will join me in voting for
Vince.

Molly Markert, AuroraThe writer is a member of the Aurora City Council.

Jessica's disappearance brought community together

As a Westminster resident, I want to express my deep appreciation to the police
department and all the agencies involved in the search for Jessica Ridgeway.
While the outcome wasn't what we hoped for, the dedication shown by law
enforcement and 800 volunteers make me proud to call Westminster home.

This event has saddened and traumatized us. We lost an innocent little girl, and
a killer is somewhere among us. It has stunned a community, made us question our
surroundings and hug our loved ones a little tighter. Jessica, unknown to the
majority of us, brought neighbors and strangers together on a freezing Saturday
to help search for her. When civilian search volunteers were no longer needed,
they passed out flyers. Out of this tragedy, strangers became friends and a
community became closer, united in what began as a search and now centers on
finding her killer. Our hope has now changed to grief.

The family of little Jessica should take comfort in knowing that she lives in
all our hearts.

Sharon Powers, Westminster

Alice Nichol's ethics

Re: "Nichol won't face charges," Oct. 16 news story.

So, Adams County Commissioner Alice Nichol wasn't indicted for fraud; however,
what about her ethics? Aren't those in question big time? I for one am glad she
was not on the ballot again and I hope that everyone in Adams County remembers
her name in case she decides to run for public office again.

Alice Deanda, Thornton

hed goes here

Re:

I have served with Director Kent Bagley on the RTD Board for close to two years.
Director Bagley is the Board Treasurer and chairs several important committees.
He is Chair of the Planning and Development Committee. As Chair of the General
Manager Oversight & Performance Committee he was instrumental in developing the
goals and metrics for the measurement of RTD's General Manager's performance.

The RTD Board of Directors has had to make some very hard decisions to balance
the budget. These decisions have affected riders in a very personal way by
changing their routine daily commute. Director Bagley worked with RTD staff to
make sure these cuts had a minimal effect. After a great deal of public input,
the board of directors approved the changes to operations that allowed the
budget to be balanced more effectively.

Kent Bagley should be re-elected to the RTD Board.

Lorraine Anderson, Arvada

hed goes here

Re:

I have served with Director Kent Bagley on the RTD Board for close to two years.
Director Bagley is the Board Treasurer and chairs several important committees.
He is Chair of the Planning and Development Committee. As Chair of the General
Manager Oversight & Performance Committee he was instrumental in developing the
goals and metrics for the measurement of RTD's General Manager's performance.

The RTD Board of Directors has had to make some very hard decisions to balance
the budget. These decisions have affected riders in a very personal way by
changing their routine daily commute. Director Bagley worked with RTD staff to
make sure these cuts had a minimal effect. After a great deal of public input,
the board of directors approved the changes to operations that allowed the
budget to be balanced more effectively.

Kent Bagley should be re-elected to the RTD Board.

Lorraine Anderson, Arvada

Folska vs. Chowdhury in RTD's District E

Claudia Folska is the right choice for the RTD Board of Directors. Claudia does
not own or drive a car and relies on RTD for her transportation needs. As a
single mom, she uses RTD for commuting to work, shopping and to run errands.

Claudia has completed a dual Ph.D. with a transportation focus by commuting
daily to the University of Colorado in both Boulder and Denver. Through riding
RTD, Claudia Folska has identified several improvements that have been
implemented at RTD. Claudia has testified before the PUC to make safety
improvements at light rail street crossings. She also has helped improve ADA
compliance at RTD and has worked with staff to make RTD employment opportunities
accessible to people with disabilities.

Claudia Folska is a strong advocate for all RTD riders and for the people of
Colorado. As an RTD Board member, Claudia will bring her vision, expertise and
passion for transit to this very important position.

Tom Tobiassen, AuroraThe writer is a member of the RTD Board of Directors.

* * *

This is the single most important time in Aurora's relationship with RTD. We
have never had much hope for buses to serve our suburb, but now we have light
rail building the spine of the city right along Interstate 225. It is vitally
important that the RTD Board member representing Aurora be from Aurora and be
vitally familiar with Aurora. Vince Chowdhury is the effective choice for RTD
Board. Vince has attended almost every one of my ward meetings to hear your
concerns and he works with me to get things done. He has earned my support for
election to the RTD Board this November. I hope you will join me in voting for
Vince.

Molly Markert, AuroraThe writer is a member of the Aurora City Council.

Jessica's disappearance brought community together

As a Westminster resident, I want to express my deep appreciation to the police
department and all the agencies involved in the search for Jessica Ridgeway.
While the outcome wasn't what we hoped for, the dedication shown by law
enforcement and 800 volunteers make me proud to call Westminster home.

This event has saddened and traumatized us. We lost an innocent little girl, and
a killer is somewhere among us. It has stunned a community, made us question our
surroundings and hug our loved ones a little tighter. Jessica, unknown to the
majority of us, brought neighbors and strangers together on a freezing Saturday
to help search for her. When civilian search volunteers were no longer needed,
they passed out flyers. Out of this tragedy, strangers became friends and a
community became closer, united in what began as a search and now centers on
finding her killer. Our hope has now changed to grief.

The family of little Jessica should take comfort in knowing that she lives in
all our hearts.

Sharon Powers, Westminster

Alice Nichol's ethics

Re: "Nichol won't face charges," Oct. 16 news story.

So, Adams County Commissioner Alice Nichol wasn't indicted for fraud; however,
what about her ethics? Aren't those in question big time? I for one am glad she
was not on the ballot again and I hope that everyone in Adams County remembers
her name in case she decides to run for public office again.

Alice Deanda, Thornton

hed goes here

Re:

I have served with Director Kent Bagley on the RTD Board for close to two years.
Director Bagley is the Board Treasurer and chairs several important committees.
He is Chair of the Planning and Development Committee. As Chair of the General
Manager Oversight & Performance Committee he was instrumental in developing the
goals and metrics for the measurement of RTD's General Manager's performance.

The RTD Board of Directors has had to make some very hard decisions to balance
the budget. These decisions have affected riders in a very personal way by
changing their routine daily commute. Director Bagley worked with RTD staff to
make sure these cuts had a minimal effect. After a great deal of public input,
the board of directors approved the changes to operations that allowed the
budget to be balanced more effectively.

Kent Bagley should be re-elected to the RTD Board.

Lorraine Anderson, Arvada

hed goes here

Re:

I have served with Director Kent Bagley on the RTD Board for close to two years.
Director Bagley is the Board Treasurer and chairs several important committees.
He is Chair of the Planning and Development Committee. As Chair of the General
Manager Oversight & Performance Committee he was instrumental in developing the
goals and metrics for the measurement of RTD's General Manager's performance.

The RTD Board of Directors has had to make some very hard decisions to balance
the budget. These decisions have affected riders in a very personal way by
changing their routine daily commute. Director Bagley worked with RTD staff to
make sure these cuts had a minimal effect. After a great deal of public input,
the board of directors approved the changes to operations that allowed the
budget to be balanced more effectively.

Kent Bagley should be re-elected to the RTD Board.

Lorraine Anderson, Arvada

Folska vs. Chowdhury in RTD's District E

Claudia Folska is the right choice for the RTD Board of Directors. Claudia does
not own or drive a car and relies on RTD for her transportation needs. As a
single mom, she uses RTD for commuting to work, shopping and to run errands.

Claudia has completed a dual Ph.D. with a transportation focus by commuting
daily to the University of Colorado in both Boulder and Denver. Through riding
RTD, Claudia Folska has identified several improvements that have been
implemented at RTD. Claudia has testified before the PUC to make safety
improvements at light rail street crossings. She also has helped improve ADA
compliance at RTD and has worked with staff to make RTD employment opportunities
accessible to people with disabilities.

Claudia Folska is a strong advocate for all RTD riders and for the people of
Colorado. As an RTD Board member, Claudia will bring her vision, expertise and
passion for transit to this very important position.

Tom Tobiassen, AuroraThe writer is a member of the RTD Board of Directors.

* * *

This is the single most important time in Aurora's relationship with RTD. We
have never had much hope for buses to serve our suburb, but now we have light
rail building the spine of the city right along Interstate 225. It is vitally
important that the RTD Board member representing Aurora be from Aurora and be
vitally familiar with Aurora. Vince Chowdhury is the effective choice for RTD
Board. Vince has attended almost every one of my ward meetings to hear your
concerns and he works with me to get things done. He has earned my support for
election to the RTD Board this November. I hope you will join me in voting for
Vince.

Molly Markert, AuroraThe writer is a member of the Aurora City Council.

Romney vs. Obama: the second presidential debate

President Obama was the clear winner Tuesday night. He challenged Mitt Romney
and actually had him spitting and sputtering. We must remember the president's
challenger is a man who is used to being in charge, used to being catered to,
used to always having his way. I heard nothing from him in either debate that
assured me, the mother of two daughters and the grandmother of two
granddaughters, that he has any concern about their shot at the American dream.

Our president does care about the middle class, the working poor, the poor, the
sick and disabled. A great country requires its citizens to care about each
other, no matter their circumstance in life. I simply do not believe Mitt Romney
is capable of that.

Kathi Goff, Arvada

* * *

I was struck by how few questions at the debate were about the president's
record, thus requiring Mitt Romney to raise those questions himself. Either the
people in the audience didn't think it important, which is hard to believe, or
the moderator chose not to use them because she believed them not relevant or
worthy of discussion.

L.W. Hunley, Grand Junction

* * *

When debating the economy, Mitt Romney has a distinct advantage over President
Obama. The former governor is not limited by the realities of recovering from
the worst economic collapse since the Great Depression. When Romney suggests
today's unemployment rate should have been recovered in four years, he is
ignoring that it took 15 years to recover the 1929 pre-crash unemployment rate.
And he is overestimating his own capabilities if he thinks the well-worn
Republican solution of sprinkling tax relief on the "job creators" will cause
them to magically start hiring. No business hires due to a tax break. They hire
when there is an increased demand for their product. And all demand starts with
the buying power of the middle class. President Obama has the right idea. Help
the middle class and you strengthen the economy for all.

Doug Willey, Thornton

* * *

It was interesting to watch Mitt Romney get dissected by the truth during the
second debate. He talked about creating jobs here in the U.S., yet he has
invested in companies that are pioneers in outsourcing our jobs to China and
India. He stated the administration failed to mention it was a terrorist attack
in Benghazi during the Rose Garden speech, and the moderator had to point out
that Mr. Romney's statement was false. The truth seems to evade Mr. Romney more
often than not.

Keith Wallin, Westminster

* * *

What a disappointment. The second debate was nothing more than two hours of
political commercials. Each repeated the usual blah-blah of their commercials.
Yes, President Obama was more assertive; he had to be unless he slept through
the debate. I was also disappointed in the questions. How about, "Mr. President,
How big is too big for the federal government?" and, "Governor, how small is too
small for the federal government?" That is the crux of this election.

Dennis Stewart, Aurora

Romney vs. Obama: the second presidential debate

President Obama was the clear winner Tuesday night. He challenged Mitt Romney
and actually had him spitting and sputtering. We must remember the president's
challenger is a man who is used to being in charge, used to being catered to,
used to always having his way. I heard nothing from him in either debate that
assured me, the mother of two daughters and the grandmother of two
granddaughters, that he has any concern about their shot at the American dream.

Our president does care about the middle class, the working poor, the poor, the
sick and disabled. A great country requires its citizens to care about each
other, no matter their circumstance in life. I simply do not believe Mitt Romney
is capable of that.

Kathi Goff, Arvada

* * *

I was struck by how few questions at the debate were about the president's
record, thus requiring Mitt Romney to raise those questions himself. Either the
people in the audience didn't think it important, which is hard to believe, or
the moderator chose not to use them because she believed them not relevant or
worthy of discussion.

L.W. Hunley, Grand Junction

* * *

When debating the economy, Mitt Romney has a distinct advantage over President
Obama. The former governor is not limited by the realities of recovering from
the worst economic collapse since the Great Depression. When Romney suggests
today's unemployment rate should have been recovered in four years, he is
ignoring that it took 15 years to recover the 1929 pre-crash unemployment rate.
And he is overestimating his own capabilities if he thinks the well-worn
Republican solution of sprinkling tax relief on the "job creators" will cause
them to magically start hiring. No business hires due to a tax break. They hire
when there is an increased demand for their product. And all demand starts with
the buying power of the middle class. President Obama has the right idea. Help
the middle class and you strengthen the economy for all.

Doug Willey, Thornton

* * *

It was interesting to watch Mitt Romney get dissected by the truth during the
second debate. He talked about creating jobs here in the U.S., yet he has
invested in companies that are pioneers in outsourcing our jobs to China and
India. He stated the administration failed to mention it was a terrorist attack
in Benghazi during the Rose Garden speech, and the moderator had to point out
that Mr. Romney's statement was false. The truth seems to evade Mr. Romney more
often than not.

Keith Wallin, Westminster

* * *

What a disappointment. The second debate was nothing more than two hours of
political commercials. Each repeated the usual blah-blah of their commercials.
Yes, President Obama was more assertive; he had to be unless he slept through
the debate. I was also disappointed in the questions. How about, "Mr. President,
How big is too big for the federal government?" and, "Governor, how small is too
small for the federal government?" That is the crux of this election.

Dennis Stewart, Aurora

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A woman visits a memorial for Jessica Ridgeway at Chelsea Park in
Westminster. Ed Andrieski, AP
A woman visits a memorial for Jessica Ridgeway at Chelsea Park in Westminster.
Ed Andrieski, AP
A woman visits a memorial for Jessica Ridgeway at Chelsea Park in Westminster.
Ed Andrieski, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved
