
                              43 of 1098 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Obama finds his fighting form

BYLINE: William Marsden, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A more forceful and assertive U.S. President Barack Obama emerged from the ashes
of his Denver debacle Tuesday in a town hall-style debate dominated by questions
about America's struggling economy, national security and its trillion-dollar
budget deficits.

Obama appeared more at ease than he was in the Denver debate, where his handlers
claimed he was caught off guard by Republican rival Mitt Romney and his sudden
conversion from a self-proclaimed "severe conservative" to the political middle
ground.

In this debate at Hofstra University in Long Island, Obama aggressively called
out Romney for major policy flip-flops and in so doing indirectly invoked the
themes of integrity and honesty before an estimated television audience of more
than 65 million people. Missed opportunities to counter his rival in Denver were
not missed in Long Island.

When the first questioner asked what his prospects were to get a job after
university, Obama said the country needs manufacturing jobs and noted that
Romney would have shut down the U.S. automotive industry instead of using
government aid to stem bankruptcy.

Romney said his five-point would create 12 million jobs.

Obama responded: "What Gov. Romney just said just isn't true." He added that
Romney had wanted to take the automakers into bankruptcy, but had no plan to get
them out of it.

"Gov. Romney doesn't have a five-point plan; he has a one-point plan," he said,
adding that it's a plan to make the rich richer and squeeze the middle class.

With national polls giving Romney a widening lead, Obama was under the gun to
show that he deserves four more years to right the U.S. economy and secure
foreign-policy gains.

Fielding questions from an audience of about 80 undecided voters on both
domestic and foreign-policy issues, Obama and Romney outlined the main
differences in their policies.

Both candidates said they would give middle-class families a tax break and Obama
added that he has already cut taxes for the middle class and will continue to do
so.

"If we are serious about reducing the deficit, we also have to make sure that
wealthy-income people do a bit more," he said. He added that Romney wants to
keep taxes low for the rich while holding the rest of the country "hostage."

He said that when Romney says he will keep taxes on the rich low, "you should
believe him, because that is his history," Obama.

Obama said Romney's tax cuts will add $5 trillion to the deficit and add another
$3 trillion through increases in military spending.

"We haven't heard any specifics from the government aside from cutting Big
Bird," he said. "The math doesn't add up. He's going to blow up the deficit."

He said Romney's philosophy is that it is fair to let the rich pay less taxes
than the middle class.

One questioner said she attributes much of America's failed economic policies to
the George W. Bush administration and asked Romney what he would do differently.

"President Bush and I are different people," he replied. He added that he would
"crack down on China" and add more free-trade agreements. He also said he would
work toward getting a balanced budget and champion small business.

Turning to face Romney, Obama said, "Governor, you are the last person who is
going to get tough on China."

He said that "we have been digging our way out of policies that had the top
doing very well and the middle class not doing well" and added that Romney would
continue with Bush tax policies.

"The centrepiece of his economic plans are tax cuts, and that's what took us
from surplus to deficit," he said.

Romney continued with his feisty style but this time Obama fought back. The
discussion became so heated at times that moderator Candy Crowley of CNN
struggled to come between them and force them to move onto the next question.

Obama was asked about the terrorist attack that killed four Americans in Libya
including the ambassador. He said his response was immediate in ordering an
investigation and beginning the hunt for the murderers.

"Gov. Romney tried to make political points," he said, referring to Romney's
news conferences held immediately after the attacks were announced.

Romney replied that the "failure in providing the security resources" are
Obama's responsibility.

He criticized Obama for continuing to campaign the day after the attacks.

"This calls in question the president's whole policy in the Middle East," he
claimed, adding that Obama has a policy of "leading from behind."

"The suggestion that anybody on my team would play politics or be misleading
when we lost four of our own is offensive," Obama said, staring down Romney.

Romney replied that "it took him (Obama) 14 days to call it an act of terror.

Crowley intervened and said the president "did indeed call it an act of terror"
the day of the attack.

Despite recent improvements in employment, housing and retail, Romney insisted
that Obama's policies have failed and that the country needs to embark on a new
path.

Observers had speculated the town hall format of Tuesday night's debate could
change the game - perhaps to Obama's disadvantage - by making it more difficult
for him directly to attack Romney.

As of Tuesday, electoral college numbers favoured Obama even after his flat
performance in the first debate.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Saul Loeb, Afp-Getty Images; Republican presidential nominee Mitt
Romney, left, and U.S. President Barack Obama debate on Tuesday at Hofstra
University in Hempstead, N.Y during the second of three presidential debates. An
estimated television audience of more than 65 million people watched the two
tangle over questions about the economy and national security.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
